Acceleration/Turning (A/T): This column lists a vehicle’s Acceleration and Turning Ratings, which are used during chases (see page 364), and for a variety of other rules.
Ammunition (Ammo): This column lists a weapon’s ammo code, which consists of 2 numbers separated by a letter — ”M” for self-contained removable magazine, “S” for an internal supply of shots, “B” for a belt, and “D” for a removable drum. The number before the letter is the number of shots the weapon can hold and the number after the letter is the number of reloads automatically supplied with the weapon (e.g. 15M4 indicates that the gun comes with 4 fully loaded 15-shot magazines). When a weapon’s ammo code lists two or more options, the character may gain only 1 of them with each weapon pick.
Example: Kevin requests a Colt M16A1, which has two ammo codes — 20M8 and 30M5. Kevin chooses the weapon model that has a 30-round magazine and comes with 5 magazines.
The full complement of ammo supplied when it’s chosen is also called the weapon’s ammunition stockpile. Several rules and upgrades change a weapon’s full ammo stockpile or offer addi- tional stockpiles to the character.
Example: Following the previous example, Kevin uses 1 of his upgrades to gain 1 additional stockpile of ammo (another five 30-round magazines) and the remaining 2 upgrades to convert both of his ammo stockpiles for the weapon to armor-piercing ammo.
Armor Check Penalty (ACP): This column lists the penalty applied by an armor to each of the character’s Reflex saves, as well as each skill check the character makes possessing the Armor Check Penalty tag (see page 101).
Armor Type: This column lists an armor’s type — (P)artial, (M)oderate, or (F)ull. For more information, see page 284.
Battery Life (Battery): This column lists the length of time an item may remain active before its charge is depleted. Thereafter, each time it’s used without a recharge, the GC rolls 1d20.
• With a result equal to or less than twice the number of times the item’s been used since its charge was depleted, the item’s power runs completely dry. The current use is aborted, the character who attempted it loses the chance to redirect his action, and the item may not be turned on again until it’s recharged.
• With a result higher than twice the number of times the item’s been used since its charge was depleted, the item continues to run for an amount of time equal to its battery life, or until it’s turned off, at which point another roll must be made to deter- mine if it continues to function.
Recharging an item costs 1 Common Item or 1/100 the item’s street value (rounded up to the nearest dollar). If the item possesses no street value, recharging it requires 3 Common Items or 1 gear pick with a Caliber 1 lower than that of the item (minimum Caliber I). Unless otherwise specified, when an item’s battery life is listed in uses, each use lasts only for 1 applicable skill check or action.
Cargo: This column lists a vehicle’s cargo capacity. No vehicle may carry items of the same Size category or larger (e.g. a Large vehicle may only carry Medium and smaller items). Bulk cargo vehicles may be converted to haul passengers at a rate of 1 passenger seat per 200 lbs. of cargo capacity.
Complexity (Comp): This column lists an item’s Complexity DC and accompanying error range modifier, which are used when making Build, Repair, Modify, and other skill checks targeting the item. “TL” indicates “Threat Level” (see page 423). An item’s Complexity error range modifier does not change the error range of skill checks made using the item.
Damage (Dmg): This column lists the damage a weapon inflicts. “As ammo” indicates that the weapon’s ammunition type deter- mines its damage (this is the case for many heavy weapons).
Damage Reduction (DR): This column lists an armor’s damage reduction (see page 332).
Damage Save (Save): This column lists the item’s Damage save bonus. Each time an item, vehicle, or piece of scenery suffers 1 or more points of lethal damage, its owner makes a Damage save against a DC equal to 10 + 1/2 the damage suffered (rounded down). A Damage save has no error or threat range.
Example: A commercial-grade video camera has a Damage save bonus of +10. When it suffers 8 points of lethal damage, its owner must make a Damage save against a DC of 14, which means the owner must roll a 4 or higher to succeed.
A few conditional rules apply, as follows.
• When a Damage save is greater than the attacking character’s Strength and the damage is inflicted by an unarmed or melee attack, or by any non-explosive hurled or thrown weapon, the item’s Damage save bonus doubles (e.g. a Damage save of +25 becomes +50).
• If the damage inflicted possesses the armor-piercing quality, the Damage save bonus decreases by the same amount before the Damage save is made (e.g. if the damage inflicted possesses the AP (4) quality, a Damage save bonus of +9 becomes +5).
• If the damage inflicted has a blast increment (see page 343), the item fails 1 additional Damage save per 10 full points by which the save is failed (e.g. if the save DC is 34 and the save result is 16, the item fails 2 saves).
• With a critical hit, the final number of Damage saves the item fails is doubled (e.g. if an item suffers a critical hit from a rocket launcher and fails its save by 22, the item fails a total of 6 saves). An attacker must spend 1 action die to activate a critical hit against an item up to Large Size, 2 dice for Huge and Gargantuan, 3 dice for Colossal and Enormous , and 4 dice for Vast.
When an item’s Damage save is successful, the item may suffer scratches, dings, and other cosmetic flaws, but the attack has no mechanical effect. Unlike damage inflicted to standard NPCs (see page 331), damage inflicted to items does not linger.
When an item’s Damage save fails, bad things may happen. An item or piece of scenery up to Medium Size becomes broken. If it’s already broken, it is destroyed. A broken item may not be used until it’s repaired with the Electronics or Mechanics skill, as appropriate. A destroyed item is ruined and may not be repaired or used again.
Big items and scenery may fail additional Damage saves before suffering these effects. A Large or bigger item becomes broken when it fails the following number of saves: 3 saves for Large, 6 for Huge, 9 for Gargantuan, 12 for Colossal, 15 for Enormous, and 18 for Vast. An item of any of these Sizes becomes destroyed when it fails twice this many Damage saves.
Vehicles are subject to additional damage rules (see page 289).
Finally, when the Damage save bonus isn’t listed for an item or a piece of scenery, the GC can determine it using Table 4.8: Damage Save Bonuses (see page 224). Generalized Complexity DCs and error ranges are also provided on this table, in case they’re needed.
Defense/Damage Save (D/S): This column lists a vehicle’s base Defense, followed by its Damage save (see previous).
Defense Penalty (DP): This column lists the penalty applied by an armor to the character’s Defense (see page 60). “—” indicates that the armor does not penalize the character’s Defense.
Error/Threat (E/T): This column lists the error and threat ranges of attacks made with a weapon. “As ammo” indicates that the weapon’s ammunition type determines the error or threat ranges of its attacks (this is the case for many heavy weapons).
Upgrade Location (Location): This column lists the location to which a firearm upgrade may be installed.
Miles Per Hour (MPH): This column lists a vehicle’s cruising and maximum velocities in miles per hour.
Notice/Search DC (N/S DC): This column lists the Notice and Search DC for an observer to spot an armor on the wearer’s body when it’s worn beneath street clothes, or to recognize it when it’s disguised. When a “D” follows this number, the armor is naturally disguised as clothing, but may be recognized as covert armor with a successful check. When “obvious” is listed here, the armor may not be concealed in any way. When “as clothing” is listed here, the armor is actually a piece of clothing that also provides minimal protection. Partial armor may only be concealed beneath at least 1 layer of clothing, while moderate armor must be hidden beneath an overcoat or equivalent cover.
Occupancy (Occ): This column lists a vehicle’s crew and the number of passengers it may carry. A single number indicates crew only, while a double number lists crew + passengers (in that order). Each passenger space may hold 100 lbs. of cargo, or be converted to hold 200 lbs. of cargo by removing the seat.
Power Rating (PR): This column lists the Power Rating of an item’s primary effect. This Power Rating is used in a variety of ways, as noted in the item’s description.
Qualities (Qual): This column lists a vehicle or weapon’s qualities, each of which modifies its performance or game rules in some fashion. For more information, see pages 292 and 301, respectively.
Range Increment (RI): This column lists the range increment of an item’s primary effect. A firearm’s maximum range is determined by its sub-category — 5 range increments for holdout pistols, backup revolvers, shotguns, and flamethrowers, and 10 range increments for all other weapons.
Each hurled weapon’s range increment is listed as two pieces of information — a range increment followed by the maximum number of range increments the weapon may travel (e.g. “5 ft. × 2” meaning that the weapon’s range increment is 5 ft. and it may be thrown up to 2 increments).
Further, the maximum number of range increments a character may throw a hurled weapon is increased by his Strength modifier (if positive; maximum 10).
When a random die roll is followed by the word “blast” in this column, the item’s primary effect expands per the blast rules, using the die result as “blast damage.” Unless otherwise specified within the effect, this blast damage does not cause injury.
Range/Fuel (R/F): This column lists a vehicle’s operating endurance at its cruising speed — unless otherwise specified, in hours of fuel. Every hour of travel above cruising speed consumes 2 hours of fuel, and every combat or chase round consumes 1 minute of fuel.
After the slash is the fuel type the vehicle uses — (A)lcohol, (B)attery, (D)iesel, Diesel (E)lectric, (F)uel Oil, (G)as, (J)et Fuel, (N)uclear, (P)ropane, (U)nique Fuel, or A(V) Gas. “N/A” indicates that the vehicle has no engine.
Recoil (Rec): This column lists a firearm’s Recoil value. If a character whose Strength score is lower than this value fires the weapon in Single-Shot mode, he suffers a –1 penalty with his attack check. If a character whose Strength score is lower than this value fires the weapon in Burst or Full Auto mode, he suffers a penalty with his attack check equal to the difference between the Recoil value and his Strength score. For more information about fire modes, see page 299.
Reputation/Net Worth (R/NW): This column lists an item’s cost in Reputation or Net Worth (see page 221). Some items may only be requested by paying this permanent cost.
Resistances (Resist): This column lists an armor’s damage resist- ance against 1 or more damage types — acid (AD), bang (BN), cold (CD), contagion (CN), electric (EL), explosive (EX), falling (FA), fire (FR), flash (FL), heat (HT), laser (LA), or vacuum (VC) (see page 333). No armor protects against sneak attack or stress damage.
Result Cap Modifier (Cap): This column lists a modifier that applies to the result cap of one or more skill checks made with an item, as noted in the item’s description.
Size (SZ): This column lists a vehicle’s Size and footprint (see page 347). Additionally, each aircraft’s (R)otorspan or (W)ingspan length is listed in squares, and each watercraft’s (D)raft — the depth its hull dips below the water surface — is listed in feet.
Size/Hands (SZ/Hand): This column lists an item’s Size and the number of hands required to use it (see pages 346 and 347, respectively).
Speed (Spd): This column lists the modifier applied to the character’s Speed while an armor is worn. All Speed penalties from armor are cumulative; if this reduces a character’s Speed to 0 ft. or less, he may not move other than to take his bonus 5-ft. step.
Street Value (SV): This column lists an item’s legal market value in 2005 dollars. When an “R” precedes an item’s street value, the item is restricted and may only be legally sold through government channels.
Upgrades (Upg): This column lists the number of upgrades that automatically come with an item.
Upgrade Cost (Cost): This column lists an upgrade’s cost (in number of upgrades consumed).
Upgrade Time (Time): This column lists the standard amount of time required to install an upgrade.
Weight (Wgt): This column lists an item’s weight, rounded to the nearest tenth of a pound.
Year of Introduction (Year): This column lists the decade of an item’s introduction, allowing the GC to omit any items that don’t exist in a historical game.

