CHIP AWAYStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Lead 1–3Skill Check Modifier: +0You try to erode the Prey’s mind or test the limits of your control over the target.Advantages Alter Memory: The Prey gains or loses all memory of 1 event lasting no more than 1 hour (chosen by the Predator). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Prey gains or loses all memory of 1 additional event lasting no more than 1 hour. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the brainwashing attempt ends.BRAINWASHING*FALSE HOPEStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Will save bonus 4+Skill Check Modifier: –4You offer the Prey a moment of hope — perhaps openly, perhaps subtly — seeking a way to break through his mental defenses.Advantages Haste: The duration of the following Conflict round is reduced to 1/2 standard (rounded down, minimum 5 minutes). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the duration is halved again (e.g. if this Advantage is chosen 3 times during a physical approach, the following Conflict round takes only 6 hours). Revelation: The opposed check winner may deliberately reveal 1 of the following pieces of information to gain 1 bonus action die: his organization’s full history, one of his organization’s goals that his opponent does not know, one of his organization’s Ratings that his opponent does not know (Goals, History, Image, Sites, or Tools), or the location and nature of 1 of his organization’s Sites that his opponent does not know. If a player controls the opposed check winner, the Game Control does not gain 1 action die as a result of this Advantage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner may reveal 1 additional piece of information to gain 1 additional bonus action die.BRAINWASHING*FLUSTERStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Sense Motive (Wis)Requirements: Will save bonus 6+Skill Check Modifier: –2You attempt to trip the Prey up in his own lies, leaving him with no defense.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the brainwashing attempt ends.BRAINWASHING*MIND GAMESStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Will save bonus 7+Skill Check Modifier: –4You keep the Prey busy with seemingly idle chatter, killing time for some reason or trying to get under his skin.Advantages Pause: The brainwash is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the brainwashing attempt is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress. Slip: The opposed check winner gains 1 of the following benefits. • The winner extracts 1 clue or important secret from 1 opponent. • The winner presents one lie that is believed to be true as if he made a successful Bluff/Deception check with a penalty of up to –6 (see Table 2.25: Character Deception). Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the winner extracts 1 additional clue or secret, or increases the penalty limit of the lie by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.).BRAINWASHING*NEW TACTICStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Lead 6–9Skill Check Modifier: –6You adopt a new method or try to rattle the Prey with unconventional means.Advantages Crisis: The process reaches a crucial impasse, with Predator and Prey locked in the ultimate test of wills. Each participant must make a Fort or Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the opponent’s career level, rounded up). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 2, minimum 5 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this save, he snaps, suffering 1d3 temporary Wisdom and 1d3 temporary Charisma damage. Further, if only one participant fails this save, his opponent wins the Conflict; otherwise, the Conflict continues as standard (this is the case even if both participants snap, though such an outcome likely produces stranger and stranger results as the participants slowly become unhinged). Each participant may skip this saving throw, but the Lead shifts by 3 in his opponent’s favor as his determination falters. New Approach: The Predator’s approach shifts from mental to physical, or vice-versa.BRAINWASHING*PATIENCEStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Resolve (Wis)Requirements: Lead 3–7Skill Check Modifier: –2You play a waiting game, letting the Prey’s inner demons fight for you.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the brainwashing attempt ends.BRAINWASHING*SEEDS OF DOUBTStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You try to drive a wedge between the Prey and his comrades.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Splinter: During the following Conflict round, the Prey group must make a team check using its lowest skill bonus. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this effect lasts for 1 additional Conflict round.BRAINWASHING*TURN THE SCREWSStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Medicine (Wis)Requirements: Will save bonus 5+Skill Check Modifier: –8You resort to violence.Advantages Haste: The duration of the following Conflict round is reduced to 1/2 standard (rounded down, minimum 5 minutes). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the duration is halved again (e.g. if this Advantage is chosen 3 times during a physical approach, the following Conflict round takes only 6 hours). Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.BRAINWASHING*ULTIMATUMStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Will save bonus 8+Skill Check Modifier: –12You try to provoke the Prey with a warning of worse to come.Advantages Slip: The opposed check winner gains 1 of the following benefits. • The winner extracts 1 clue or important secret from 1 opponent. • The winner presents one lie that is believed to be true as if he made a successful Bluff/Deception check with a penalty of up to –6 (see Table 2.25: Character Deception). Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the winner extracts 1 additional clue or secret, or increases the penalty limit of the lie by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.). Victory: The brainwashing attempt ends in the opposed check winner’s favorBRAINWASHING*CLING TO HOPEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Networking (Wis)Requirements: Will (vs. mental)/Fortitude (vs. physical) save bonus 5+Skill Check Modifier: –2You draw strength from dreams of rescue, reinforcing your faith that your friends will come for you.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Pause: The brainwash is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the brainwashing attempt is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.BRAINWASHING*CONCEDEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Resolve (Wis)Requirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You plan to give up some of your bargaining chips to gain much needed relief.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Revelation: The opposed check winner may deliberately reveal 1 of the following pieces of information to gain 1 bonus action die: his organization’s full history, one of his organization’s goals that his opponent does not know, one of his organization’s Ratings that his opponent does not know (Goals, History, Image, Sites, or Tools), or the location and nature of 1 of his organization’s Sites that his opponent does not know. If a player controls the opposed check winner, the Game Control does not gain 1 action die as a result of this Advantage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner may reveal 1 additional piece of information to gain 1 additional bonus action die.BRAINWASHING*HOLD FASTStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Resolve (Wis)Requirements: Will (vs. mental)/Fortitude (vs. physical) save bonus 7+Skill Check Modifier: –2You directly resist your captors, putting up the strongest front you can.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Pause: The brainwash is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the brainwashing attempt is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.BRAINWASHING*LAST STANDStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Resolve (Wis)Requirements: Lead 1–3Skill Check Modifier: –6Nearly broken, you make one final attempt to resist your captors’ relentless assault.Advantages Crisis: The process reaches a crucial impasse, with Predator and Prey locked in the ultimate test of wills. Each participant must make a Fort or Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 the opponent’s career level, rounded up). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 2, minimum 5 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this save, he snaps, suffering 1d3 temporary Wisdom and 1d3 temporary Charisma damage. Further, if only one participant fails this save, his opponent wins the Conflict; otherwise, the Conflict continues as standard (this is the case even if both participants snap, though such an outcome likely produces stranger and stranger results as the participants slowly become unhinged). Each participant may skip this saving throw, but the Lead shifts by 3 in his opponent’s favor as his determination falters. New Approach: The Predator’s approach shifts from mental to physical, or vice-versa.BRAINWASHING*MISDIRECTStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Resolve (Wis)Requirements: Will (vs. mental)/Fortitude (vs. physical) save bonus 4+Skill Check Modifier: –4You search for the ideal moment to reveal something the Predator wants, hoping for the chance to dupe your captor.Advantages Revelation: The opposed check winner may deliberately reveal 1 of the following pieces of information to gain 1 bonus action die: his organization’s full history, one of his organization’s goals that his opponent does not know, one of his organization’s Ratings that his opponent does not know (Goals, History, Image, Sites, or Tools), or the location and nature of 1 of his organization’s Sites that his opponent does not know. If a player controls the opposed check winner, the Game Control does not gain 1 action die as a result of this Advantage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner may reveal 1 additional piece of information to gain 1 additional bonus action die. Twist: The opposed check winner may use any of the following skills when making the next opposed check during the same chase: Analysis (Wis), Cultures (Int), Falsify (Wis), Intimidate (Cha), Investigation (Cha), Science (Int), or Tactics (Int). None of these checks possess tags.BRAINWASHING*NEVER SURRENDERStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Resolve (Wis)Requirements: Will (vs. mental)/Fortitude (vs. physical) save bonus 8+Skill Check Modifier: –12You concentrate much of your remaining reserves in a powerful burst of defiance, trying desperately to prove you’re beyond the Predator’s influence.Advantages Haste: The duration of the following Conflict round is reduced to 1/2 standard (rounded down, minimum 5 minutes). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the duration is halved again (e.g. if this Advantage is chosen 3 times during a physical approach, the following Conflict round takes only 6 hours). Victory: The brainwashing attempt ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.BRAINWASHING*REBELStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Resolve (Wis)Requirements: Lead 7–9 Skill Check Modifier: +0You sense that your captors may not have the will to break you, and push the advantage, searching for a way to overcome your conditioning.Advantages Haste: The duration of the following Conflict round is reduced to 1/2 standard (rounded down, minimum 5 minutes). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the duration is halved again (e.g. if this Advantage is chosen 3 times during a physical approach, the following Conflict round takes only 6 hours). Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.BRAINWASHING*STILL IN THE GAMEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Bluff (Cha)Requirements: Lead 3–7Skill Check Modifier: –8You begin to play mind games of your own, hoping to distract the Predator from your real plan.Advantages Slip: The opposed check winner gains 1 of the following benefits. • The winner extracts 1 clue or important secret from 1 opponent. • The winner presents one lie that is believed to be true as if he made a successful Bluff/Deception check with a penalty of up to –6 (see Table 2.25: Character Deception). Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the winner extracts 1 additional clue or secret, or increases the penalty limit of the lie by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.). Twist: The opposed check winner may use any of the following skills when making the next opposed check during the same chase: Analysis (Wis), Cultures (Int), Falsify (Wis), Intimidate (Cha), Investigation (Cha), Science (Int), or Tactics (Int). None of these checks possess tags.BRAINWASHING*WORRISOME SMILEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Will (vs. mental)/Fortitude (vs. physical) save bonus 6+Skill Check Modifier: –4There are few things quite as infuriating as cool amusement from someone who’s supposed to be terrified of you…Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the brainwashing attempt ends.BRAINWASHING*BUY TIMEStrategy: GeneralRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: –4You stall, matching speed and maneuvers with your opponent, hoping to put off another confrontation until the odds are stacked more heavily in your favor.Advantages Pause: The chase is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the chase is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to move, test one another, and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.CHASE*CLIPStrategy: GeneralRequirements: Lead 1–2Skill Check Modifier: –4You dart close to your opponent and try to brush him. This often has the added benefit of closing below your opponent’s minimum weapon range.Advantages Defense: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus to Defense against attacks made by other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the error range of each attack made against the opposed check winner increases by 1. Impact: Both the opposed check winner and 1 opponent of his choice suffer collision damage. If either participant is on foot, this damage is determined by the size of the opposing vehicle and its current MPH. If both participants are on foot, each suffers 1d4 lethal damage + 1d4 additional lethal damage each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first. If in a vehicle, this damage is equal to the opponent’s check result. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the damage suffered by the opposed check winner decreases by 4 (while his opponent’s damage remains unchanged). Also, with GC permission, each character in the opposed check winner’s vehicle may make an Acrobatics/Jump check to leap onto the target vehicle. This leap must clear 5 ft. or the jumper falls between the vehicles, suffering appropriate falling damage and 1d6 collision damage per 10 MPH the vehicles are currently traveling.CHASE*EAT MY DUSTStrategy: GeneralRequirements: Acceleration 5+ or Turning 5+Skill Check Modifier: –2You pour it on, hoping to leave your opponent fumbling in your wake.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice). Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the chase ends.CHASE*“GO, GO, GO!”Strategy: GeneralRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: –4You make a mad push for victory, ignoring anything that gets in your way. Unfortunately, this dramatically increases your chance of a dangerous error.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice). Crisis: Outside vehicles, terrain, bystanders, or other obstacles cross the participants’ path, complicating things. Each participant must make a Maneuver check against the current Crisis DC, as shown on Table 6.1: Maneuvering Room. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 5, minimum 10 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this check, he or his vehicle crashes; otherwise, the chase continues as standard. Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 3 in his opponent’s favor as he slows and recoups.CHASE*PARTING SHOTStrategy: GeneralRequirements: Lead 8–9Skill Check Modifier: –2With the chase almost over, you pause for a little casual violence.Advantages Attack: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus with attack checks made against other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the threat range of each affected attack increases by 1. Crisis: Outside vehicles, terrain, bystanders, or other obstacles cross the participants’ path, complicating things. Each participant must make a Maneuver check against the current Crisis DC, as shown on Table 6.1: Maneuvering Room. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 5, minimum 10 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this check, he or his vehicle crashes; otherwise, the chase continues as standard. Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 3 in his opponent’s favor as he slows and recoups.CHASE*QUICK REVERSEStrategy: GeneralRequirements: Lead 2–6Skill Check Modifier: –8You turn on your opponent, trying to shake him, or force him to relinquish some of his control over the chase.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice). Swap: The Predator becomes the Prey, or vice versa, and the Lead is increased by 1.CHASE*RAMStrategy: GeneralRequirements: Lead 1–4Skill Check Modifier: –2You remind your opponent that a vehicle is also a weapon.Advantages Attack: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus with attack checks made against other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the threat range of each affected attack increases by 1. Impact: Both the opposed check winner and 1 opponent of his choice suffer collision damage. If either participant is on foot, this damage is determined by the size of the opposing vehicle and its current MPH. If both participants are on foot, each suffers 1d4 lethal damage + 1d4 additional lethal damage each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first. If in a vehicle, this damage is equal to the opponent’s check result. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the damage suffered by the opposed check winner decreases by 4 (while his opponent’s damage remains unchanged). Also, with GC permission, each character in the opposed check winner’s vehicle may make an Acrobatics/Jump check to leap onto the target vehicle. This leap must clear 5 ft. or the jumper falls between the vehicles, suffering appropriate falling damage and 1d6 collision damage per 10 MPH the vehicles are currently traveling.CHASE*SET UPStrategy: GeneralRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: –4You prepare for something completely different — and with luck entirely unexpected — during the next Conflict round.Advantages Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the chase ends. Twist: The opposed check winner may use any of the following skills when making the next opposed check during the same chase: Blend (Dex), Bluff (Cha), Impress (Cha), Intimidate (Cha), Mechanics (Int), Sense Motive (Wis), or Streetwise (Wis). None of these checks possess tags.CHASE*STUNTStrategy: GeneralRequirements: Daredevil feat, Acceleration 6+ or Turning 6+Skill Check Modifier: –8You attempt your own brand of vehicular insanity, hoping to realign the chase positions or shift the action to a new venue.Advantages Room: The Maneuvering Room is adjusted by 1 grade (in a direction of the opposed check winner’s choice). If this Advantage is chosen 3 times during the same round, the opposed check winner may adjust the Maneuvering Room to any grade. Swap: The Predator becomes the Prey, or vice versa, and the Lead is increased by 1.CHASE*TACTICAL PLOYStrategy: GeneralRequirements: Acceleration 8+ or Turning 8+Skill Check Modifier: –6You use a strategic move to gain the upper hand (e.g. ducking into a hall of mirrors during a foot chase through a carnival, for instance, or leading a vehicle chase uphill at dawn so the sun shines directly in your opponent’s eyes).Advantages Attack: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus with attack checks made against other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the threat range of each affected attack increases by 1. Defense: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus to Defense against attacks made by other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the error range of each attack made against the opposed check winner increases by 1. Room: The Maneuvering Room is adjusted by 1 grade (in a direction of the opposed check winner’s choice). If this Advantage is chosen 3 times during the same round, the opposed check winner may adjust the Maneuvering Room to any grade.CHASE*“THAT’S IMPOSSIBLE!”Strategy: GeneralRequirements: “That’s Impossible!” class abilitySkill Check Modifier: +0Most days, you and physics have a shifty relationship. When you use this Strategy, you aren’t even on speaking terms.Advantages If a character possessing the “That’s Impossible!” class ability wins an opposed skill check using this Strategy, he may spend 1 use of the ability to choose any 1 Advantage, plus 1 additional Advantage per 4 by which he wins the check. He may not choose the Victory Advantage as part of this package.CHASE*WEAVEStrategy: GeneralRequirements: Lead 6–9Skill Check Modifier: –4You try to use the terrain, other participants, and bystanders as cover. This often ends badly, both for the intended cover and for you.Advantages Defense: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus to Defense against attacks made by other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the error range of each attack made against the opposed check winner increases by 1. Crisis: Outside vehicles, terrain, bystanders, or other obstacles cross the participants’ path, complicating things. Each participant must make a Maneuver check against the current Crisis DC, as shown on Table 6.1: Maneuvering Room. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 5, minimum 10 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this check, he or his vehicle crashes; otherwise, the chase continues as standard. Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 3 in his opponent’s favor as he slows and recoups.CHASE*ATTACK RUNStrategy: Predator onlyRequirements: Acceleration 5+ and Turning 4+Skill Check Modifier: +0You try to line up a kill shot. Usually, this involves speeding up and leveling out, motions useful for closing on the Prey as well.Advantages Attack: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus with attack checks made against other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the threat range of each affected attack increases by 1. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice).CHASE*CLOSE INStrategy: Predator onlyRequirements: Turning 5+Skill Check Modifier: –2You hover close behind the Prey, hoping he’ll crack under the pressure and make a stupid mistake.Advantages Pause: The chase is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the chase is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to move, test one another, and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the chase ends.CHASE*CUT OFFStrategy: Predator onlyRequirements: Acceleration 7+ or Turning 7+Skill Check Modifier: –12You try to cut off and trap your foe in one stroke.Advantages Attack: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus with attack checks made against other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the threat range of each affected attack increases by 1. Victory: The chase ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.CHASE*REDLINEStrategy: Predator onlyRequirements: Acceleration 6+Skill Check Modifier: +2You push to the limit, hoping to catch up with the Prey in a dangerous burst of speed.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice).CHASE*SHORTCUTStrategy: Predator onlyRequirements: Acceleration 4+ and Turning 6+Skill Check Modifier: –4You try to force the Prey through dangerous terrain.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice). Room: The Maneuvering Room is adjusted by 1 grade (in a direction of the opposed check winner’s choice). If this Advantage is chosen 3 times during the same round, the opposed check winner may adjust the Maneuvering Room to any grade.CHASE*STALKStrategy: Predator onlyRequirements: Acceleration 6+ or Turning 3+Skill Check Modifier: –4You follow the Prey with caution, keeping the pressure on from a discreet distance. This keeps you out of harm’s way, and leaves the Prey confused about what you’re planning.Advantages Defense: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus to Defense against attacks made by other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the error range of each attack made against the opposed check winner increases by 1. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the chase ends.CHASE*CAREFUL TIMINGStrategy: Prey onlyRequirements: Acceleration 5+Skill Check Modifier: –2You delay until you spot the perfect moment to spring ahead of the Predator. This isn’t as risky as buying time, but requires greater Acceleration.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice). Pause: The chase is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the chase is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to move, test one another, and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.CHASE*CHICKENStrategy: Prey onlyRequirements: Acceleration 3+ or Turning 6+Skill Check Modifier: –4You turn back toward the Predator and charge him head on, hoping to unnerve or injure him.Advantages Attack: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus with attack checks made against other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the threat range of each affected attack increases by 1. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the chase ends.CHASE*DETOURStrategy: Prey onlyRequirements: Acceleration 6+ or Turning 4+Skill Check Modifier: –4You make an unexpected turn, hoping to draw the chase into a new area.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice). Room: The Maneuvering Room is adjusted by 1 grade (in a direction of the opposed check winner’s choice). If this Advantage is chosen 3 times during the same round, the opposed check winner may adjust the Maneuvering Room to any grade.CHASE*DOUBLE BACKStrategy: Prey onlyRequirements: Acceleration 4+ or Turning 5+Skill Check Modifier: +0You whip around, trying to put some scenery between yourself and the Predator.Advantages Defense: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus to Defense against attacks made by other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the error range of each attack made against the opposed check winner increases by 1. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice).CHASE*LONG GONEStrategy: Prey onlyRequirements: Acceleration 7+ or Turning 7+Skill Check Modifier: –12You try to lose your tail with one decisive dash.Advantages Defense: The opposed check winner gains a +4 bonus to Defense against attacks made by other chase participants for 1 full round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this bonus increases by an additional +2 and the error range of each attack made against the opposed check winner increases by 1. Victory: The chase ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.CHASE*OUTFOXStrategy: Prey onlyRequirements: Turning 6+Skill Check Modifier: +2You hope to force the Predator into one or more turns he can’t manage, gaining valuable Lead in the process.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor, or an opponent’s Smash points are reduced by 1 (opposed check winner’s choice).CHASE*CODE SLINGINGStrategy: GeneralSkill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You employ common tactics to undermine or reinforce the target system’s security.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.HACKING*L337 MOVESStrategy: GeneralSkill: StandardRequirements: Computer Power Rating 7+Skill Check Modifier: +2You use your significant system power to wear your opponent down, undermining his confidence and exploiting every mistake he makes.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the hacking attempt ends.HACKING*MASTER CRACKERStrategy: GeneralSkill: StandardRequirements: Master cracker class abilitySkill Check Modifier: +0Your uncanny insight allows you to reshape the struggle within the machine.Advantages If a character possessing the master cracker class ability wins an opposed skill check using this Strategy, he may spend 1 use of the ability to choose any 1 Advantage, plus 1 additional Advantage per 4 by which he wins the check. He may not choose the Victory Advantage as part of this package.HACKING*PHONE PHREAKStrategy: GeneralSkill: Electronics (Int)Requirements: Trace softwareSkill Check Modifier: –4You analyze communication system traffic, hoping to get a better sense of the situation.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Trace: The opposed check winner may attempt to trace signal traffic to determine another participant’s physical location. One opponent of the opposed check winner’s choice must make a Computers (Int) check (DC 10 + (the Power Rating of the opposed check winner’s Trace software x 5). This check possesses the Concentration, Hands On, and Vision tags. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this DC increases by 5. With success, the trace reveals nothing. With failure, the opposed check winner determines the target’s current location, and if he is the defending user, may immediately end the Dramatic Conflict in his favor. This is also sufficient information to prompt a manhunt. The chosen opponent may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in the opposed check winner’s favor as the opponent recovers.HACKING*PLAY THROUGHStrategy: GeneralSkill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You play various routing games to conceal your whereabouts.Advantages Elude: The Power Rating of any Trace software targeting the opposed check winner decreases by 3 until the end of the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this benefit lasts for 1 additional Conflict round. This Advantage may not reduce the Power Rating of any Trace software by more than 3, even if it is gained again while it’s still active.HACKING*“SHALL WE PLAY A GAME?”Strategy: GeneralSkill: Tactics (Wis)Requirements: Computer Power Rating 3+, Probe softwareSkill Check Modifier: –4You attempt to occupy your opponent with endless processing loops as he launches a desperate gambit elsewhere in the system.Advantages Pause: The hack is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the hacking attempt is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another), but no one — including the opposed check winner — make any progress. Probe: The opposed check winner momentarily punches through or reinforces security using advanced software and a healthy dose of guesswork. One opponent of his choice must make a Computers (Int) check (DC 10 + (the Power Rating of the opposed check winner’s Probe software x 5)). This check possesses the Concentration, Hands On, and Vision tags. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this DC increases by 5. With success, this action reveals nothing. With failure, the opposed check winner may immediately execute 1 core command. The chosen opponent may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in the opposed check winner’s favor as the opponent recovers.HACKING*SOCIAL ENGINEERINGStrategy: GeneralSkill: Bureaucracy (Cha)Requirements: Probe softwareSkill Check Modifier: –4You focus your attack on the opponent rather than the opponent’s machine, hoping to outwit him directly.Advantages Probe: The opposed check winner momentarily punches through or reinforces security using advanced software and a healthy dose of guesswork. One opponent of his choice must make a Computers (Int) check (DC 10 + (the Power Rating of the opposed check winner’s Probe software x 5)). This check possesses the Concentration, Hands On, and Vision tags. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this DC increases by 5. With success, this action reveals nothing. With failure, the opposed check winner may immediately execute 1 core command. The chosen opponent may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in the opposed check winner’s favor as the opponent recovers. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the hacking attempt ends.HACKING*INDEX SNATCHStrategy: Invading user onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 1–4Skill Check Modifier: –6You attempt to pry a file out of the target system using an indirect — and seemingly legitimate — request. Tracking and countering these elusive attacks is one of the most taxing parts of a defending user’s job.Advantages Extract File: The opposed check winner may extract 1 file of his choice from 1 opponent’s target computer. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner may extract 1 additional file. This Advantage assumes the user knows the name and location of the desired file; if he doesn’t, an Investigation/Research check is required. If this Research or the file transfer takes longer than the current Conflict round, it inflicts a –4 penalty with the hacking opposed check during each round it persists. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the hacking attempt ends.HACKING*INSERT PACKETStrategy: Invading user onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 1–3Skill Check Modifier: –8You try to drop off a little gift in an unused part of the system.Advantages Pause: The hack is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the hacking attempt is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another), but no one — including the opposed check winner — make any progress. Seize Control: The opposed check winner may prompt the target computer to run or stop 1 program of his choice, usually a virus. This program must be stored on either the opposed check winner’s computer or the target computer. Alternately, the opposed check winner may seize control of 1 device controlled by the target computer. This control lasts until Step 2 of the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, opposed check winner gains control of 1 program or device.HACKING*KERNEL INTERRUPTStrategy: Invading user onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 1–2Skill Check Modifier: –8You try to seize momentary control of the system and vanish to a new part of the system.Advantages Core Command: The opposed check winner may execute 1 of the target computer’s core commands. This command may not initiate a system purge, power the machine down, or change the network structure to lock another user out. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner may execute 1 additional core command. Elude: The Power Rating of any Trace software targeting the opposed check winner decreases by 3 until the end of the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this benefit lasts for 1 additional Conflict round. This Advantage may not reduce the Power Rating of any Trace software by more than 3, even if it is gained again while it’s still active.HACKING*MAGIC BULLETStrategy: Invading user onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Computer Power Rating 7+Skill Check Modifier: –12You catch sight of a chink in the system’s armor, and exploit it to locate or defeat your opponent.Advantages Trace: The opposed check winner may attempt to trace signal traffic to determine another participant’s physical location. One opponent of the opposed check winner’s choice must make a Computers (Int) check (DC 10 + (the Power Rating of the opposed check winner’s Trace software x 5). This check possesses the Concentration, Hands On, and Vision tags. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this DC increases by 5. With success, the trace reveals nothing. With failure, the opposed check winner determines the target’s current location, and if he is the defending user, may immediately end the Dramatic Conflict in his favor. This is also sufficient information to prompt a manhunt. The chosen opponent may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in the opposed check winner’s favor as the opponent recovers. Victory: The hacking attempt ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.HACKING*TROJAN FILE MARKERStrategy: Invading user onlySkill: Falsify (Int)Requirements: Computer Power Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –4Advantages Back Door: The Predator may either eliminate one of the Prey’s silhouettes (shaking the Prey’s running invader profile), or install a back door at the current Lead. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.HACKING*CORE COUNTER-MEASURESStrategy: System/defending user onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 1–2Skill Check Modifier: –8You bring the full strength of your system to bear, hoping to keep the invader at bay, or even quash him like the bug that he is.Advantages Core Command: The opposed check winner may execute 1 of the target computer’s core commands. This command may not initiate a system purge, power the machine down, or change the network structure to lock another user out. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner may execute 1 additional core command. Pause: The hack is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the hacking attempt is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another), but no one — including the opposed check winner — make any progress.HACKING*HARD REBOOTStrategy: System/defending user onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Computer Power Rating 7+Skill Check Modifier: –12Convinced of an imminent security breach, you try to shut down all system access.Advantages Trace: The opposed check winner may attempt to trace signal traffic to determine another participant’s physical location. One opponent of the opposed check winner’s choice must make a Computers (Int) check (DC 10 + (the Power Rating of the opposed check winner’s Trace software x 5). This check possesses the Concentration, Hands On, and Vision tags. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this DC increases by 5. With success, the trace reveals nothing. With failure, the opposed check winner determines the target’s current location, and if he is the defending user, may immediately end the Dramatic Conflict in his favor. This is also sufficient information to prompt a manhunt. The chosen opponent may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in the opposed check winner’s favor as the opponent recovers. Victory: The hacking attempt ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.HACKING*INVERSE QUERYStrategy: System/defending user onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 6–9Skill Check Modifier: –6You try to coax the invader to give up vital information in exchange for continued access.Advantages Extract File: The opposed check winner may extract 1 file of his choice from 1 opponent’s target computer. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner may extract 1 additional file. This Advantage assumes the user knows the name and location of the desired file; if he doesn’t, an Investigation/Research check is required. If this Research or the file transfer takes longer than the current Conflict round, it inflicts a –4 penalty with the hacking opposed check during each round it persists. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.HACKING*SECURITY ALERTStrategy: System/defending user onlySkill: Security (Int)Requirements: Security Power Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –4You harass the Predator by distributing his silhouettes across the system.Advantages Silhouette: The Prey may either eliminate one of the Predator’s back doors (shaking his code out of the system), or establish a profile silhouette of the Prey. Each silhouette grants a cumulative +1 bonus with all hacking opposed skill checks against the target Predator until the end of the current mission. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the hacking attempt ends.HACKING*VIRUS SALVOStrategy: System/defending user onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 7–9Skill Check Modifier: –8You unleash a barrage of viruses in an attempt to cripple the invading Predator or seize control of his system.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Seize Control: The opposed check winner may prompt the target computer to run or stop 1 program of his choice, usually a virus. This program must be stored on either the opposed check winner’s computer or the target computer. Alternately, the opposed check winner may seize control of 1 device controlled by the target computer. This control lasts until Step 2 of the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, opposed check winner gains control of 1 program or device.HACKING*AFTER HOURSStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Sneak (Dex)Requirements: Cover identity Power Rating 3+Skill Check Modifier: –4You try to slip into the organization’s facilities during a period of relative quiet.Advantages Access Point: The Predator finds a computer terminal without close observation, and may use it to hack the organization’s system with Internal Access for up to 1 hour. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Predator gains 1 additional hour of uninterrupted hacking time (maximum 4 hours). Reconnaissance: The Predator learns 1 of the following pieces of information (his choice): the location and nature of 1 previously unknown organization Site of the Prey’s choice, one previously unknown organization Rating of the Prey’s hoice (Goals, History, Image, Sites, or Tools), or the full stat block for 1 of the organization’s standard character of the Prey’s choice. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Predator learns 1 additional piece of information.INFILTRATION*BALD-FACED LIEStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Bald-faced lie class abilitySkill Check Modifier: +0Your gift for making the most incredible deceptions seem plausible gives you a sharp edge over the organization’s security forces.Advantages If a character possessing the bald-faced lie class ability wins an opposed skill check using this Strategy, he may spend 1 use of the ability to choose any 1 Advantage, plus 1 additional Advantage per 4 by which he wins the check. He may not choose the Victory Advantage as part of this package.INFILTRATION*BREAK-INStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Security (Int)Requirements: High profile approach, Lead 1–3Skill Check Modifier: –6With knowledge of the organization’s most closely guarded resources, you prepare a covert attack.Advantages Raid: The Predator may steal or destroy any 1 of the organization’s Site benefits at his current location. The Predator must then escape and the Prey gains a number of action dice equal to the current Lead that may only be spent to trigger a Surprise Chase, Surprise Combat, or Wanted event targeting the Predator.INFILTRATION*CHANGE OF PACEStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 7–9Skill Check Modifier: –4You try to fade into the background after a splashy effort, or rise to the organization leaders’ attention after a period of low-key work.Advantages Extraction: The Predator escapes the organization and the Prey may not trigger any events as a result. New Approach: The Predator’s approach shifts from high profile to low profile, or vice-versa.INFILTRATION*DATA RUNStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Cover identity Power Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –8You make a dangerous play to acquire more information about the organization.Advantages Access Point: The Predator finds a computer terminal without close observation, and may use it to hack the organization’s system with Internal Access for up to 1 hour. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Predator gains 1 additional hour of uninterrupted hacking time (maximum 4 hours). Intelligence: The Predator learns 1 of the following pieces of information (his choice): one previously unknown organization goal of the Prey’s choice, the organization’s full history, or the Origin, Attribute scores, qualities, feats, and class abilities of 1 of the organization’s player of special characters of the Prey’s choice. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Predator learns 1 additional piece of information.INFILTRATION*HAVENStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Cover identity Power Rating 3+Skill Check Modifier: –4Concerned about being discovered or simply needing to bide your time, you fall back to a prepared location or routine.Advantages Fade: The lowest cover identity Power Rating possessed by the opposed check winner increases by 1 (maximum 7). If the winner possesses no cover identities, he gains 1 cover identity with a Power Rating of 2. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the lowest cover identity Power Rating possessed by the opposed check winner increases by an additional 1. Pause: The infiltration is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the infiltration is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.INFILTRATION*MURDER SCHEMEStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Cover identity Power Rating 5+Skill Check Modifier: –6You arrange an attack upon one of the organization’s major figures.Advantages Conspiracy: The Predator may make an Impress (Cha) check (DC 10 + 5 x the organization’s History Rating) with the Bribe, Disposition, and Language tags. With success, the target’s character or squad’s disposition toward both the organization and the Predator becomes Neutral, and the target refuses to participate in any combat or chase on behalf of the organization for the duration of the current mission. With failure, however, the Lead increases by 1. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Prey may target 1 additional character or squad. Alternately, he may target a character or squad with a Neutral disposition toward him and the organization, improving its disposition toward him to Friendly, worsening its disposition toward the organization to Unfriendly, and causing it to willingly join him during any combat or chase. These effects last until the end of the current mission. Showdown: The Predator fights 1 special organization NPC and 1 minion squad (if available). This special NPC may only be the organization’s mastermind at the organization’s HQ. The infiltration continues with +2 Lead if the special NPC and all minions are captured or killed; otherwise, the infiltration ends in the Prey’s favor, the Predator must escape, and the Prey gains a number of action dice equal to the current Lead that may only be spent to trigger a Surprise Chase, Surprise Combat, or Wanted event targeting the Predator.INFILTRATION*QUICK PEEKStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 4–6Skill Check Modifier: –2Rather than try to completely subvert the organization, you seek to gather a little intelligence and flee.Advantages Extraction: The Predator escapes the organization and the Prey may not trigger any events as a result. Reconnaissance: The Predator learns 1 of the following pieces of information (his choice): the location and nature of 1 previously unknown organization Site of the Prey’s choice, one previously unknown organization Rating of the Prey’s choice (Goals, History, Image, Sites, or Tools), or the full stat block for 1 of the organization’s standard character of the Prey’s choice. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Predator learns 1 additional piece of information.INFILTRATION*RISKY DECLARATIONStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Impress (Cha)Requirements: High profile approach, cover identity Power Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –8You try to construct a scene intended to convince the organization’s security forces — or perhaps even its leaders — that you’re one of their staunchest supporters, and worthy of their most guarded secrets.Advantages Crisis: The infiltration comes to a head as the Predator’s loyalty to the organization and the Prey’s suspicions about the intruder are simultaneously put to the test. The Predator makes an Impress (Cha) check and the Prey makes a Sense Motive (Wis) check, each with a DC of 25 + the opponent’s career level. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 4, minimum 20 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If only one participant fails this check, his opponent wins the Conflict (i.e. the Predator convinces the Prey of his loyalty, or the Prey discovers the Predator’s duplicity); otherwise, the crisis is averted without tipping the scales in either direction and the Conflict continues as standard. Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 3 in his opponent’s favor as he blunders through the situation.INFILTRATION*ROTTEN APPLESStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Manipulate (Cha)Requirements: Cover identity Power Rating 6+Skill Check Modifier: –2You go to work on some of the weak links, trying to build a power base inside the organization.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Conspiracy: The Predator may make an Impress (Cha) check (DC 10 + 5 x the organization’s History Rating) with the Bribe, Disposition, and Language tags. With success, the target’s character or squad’s disposition toward both the organization and the Predator becomes Neutral, and the target refuses to participate in any combat or chase on behalf of the organization for the duration of the current mission. With failure, however, the Lead increases by 1. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Prey may target 1 additional character or squad. Alternately, he may target a character or squad with a Neutral disposition toward him and the organization, improving its disposition toward him to Friendly, worsening its disposition toward the organization to Unfriendly, and causing it to willingly join him during any combat or chase. These effects last until the end of the current mission.INFILTRATION*RUSH JOBStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Cover identity Power Rating 5+Skill Check Modifier: –6You pick up the pace, hoping to gain ground quickly.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Haste: The duration of the following Conflict round is reduced to 1/2 standard (rounded down, minimum 5 minutes). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the duration is halved again (e.g. if this Advantage is chosen 3 times during a low profile approach, the following Conflict round takes only 6 hours).INFILTRATION*SHOW OF LOYALTYStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You put on a show of loyalty, trying to engender yourself with the organization’s leadership and advance through the ranks.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Transfer: The Predator discovers the location of 1 known organization Site. If all Site locations are known, he learns the location of the organization’s HQ. Further, he may arrange a transfer to any known organization site. Every 3 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Predator learns the location of 1 additional known Site.INFILTRATION*STEP OUTStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Cover identity Power Rating 2+Skill Check Modifier: –4You try to give any organization watchers the slip so you can confer you’re your teammates and allies on the outside.Advantages Free Time: The Predator arranges to be unobserved by the Prey for 1 hour, allowing him to meet with his teammates, pick up gear, and perform other activities inside the organization or out before returning to his assumed existence. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Predator may act without observation for 1 additional hour (maximum 3 hours). If the Predator leaves the organization, and does not return by the end of the allotted time, he must make a successful Bluff (Cha) check (DC 20 + (4 x the organization’s Goals Rating)) to contrive an excuse of his absence. This check possesses the Bribe, Disposition, and Language tags. With failure, the organization’s security forces deduce that the Predator is a mole, at which point the Prey wins the Conflict and gains a number of action dice equal to the current Lead that may only be spent to trigger a Surprise Chase, Surprise Combat, or Wanted event targeting the Predator. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.INFILTRATION*BACKGROUND CHECKSStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Organization Goals Rating 3+Skill Check Modifier: –6You run a series of background checks, beginning with recent inductees. This directly targets the Predator’s front — namely any cover identity he possesses.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Shred: The Power Rating of 1 of the Predator’s cover identities decreases by 1 (if the Predator possesses more than 1 cover identity, this affects the one with the lowest Power Rating). If this reduces the Power Rating to 0, the cover identity is blown. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the identity’s Power Rating is reduced by an additional 1 (if the most recently targeted identity’s Power Rating is reduced to 0, this affects the cover identity with the next lowest Power Rating).INFILTRATION*“BEFORE I KILL YOU…”Strategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Big brother or global search class abilitiesSkill Check Modifier: +0Your understanding of common infiltration techniques allows your security forces to toy with most invaders.Advantages If a character possessing the big brother or global search class ability wins an opposed skill check using this Strategy, he may spend 1 use of the ability to choose any 1 Advantage, plus 1 additional Advantage per 4 by which he wins the check. He may not choose the Victory Advantage as part of this package.INFILTRATION*COUNTER-INTELLIGENCEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0Your primary security experts catch the Predator’s scent for a time, and start up or continue a file.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.INFILTRATION*HEIGHTENED SECURITYStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Organization Goals Rating 2+Skill Check Modifier: –2You step up security measures to smoke out any infiltrators.Advantages Haste: The duration of the following Conflict round is reduced to 1/2 standard (rounded down, minimum 5 minutes). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the duration is halved again (e.g. if this Advantage is chosen 3 times during a low profile approach, the following Conflict round takes only 6 hours). Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the infiltration ends.INFILTRATION*INNER CIRCLE TRIALStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Lead 1–3Skill Check Modifier: –8When the Predator steps away from the heart of the organization, your security details run him through one last loyalty test…Advantages Crisis: The infiltration comes to a head as the Predator’s loyalty to the organization and the Prey’s suspicions about the intruder are simultaneously put to the test. The Predator makes an Impress (Cha) check and the Prey makes a Sense Motive (Wis) check, each with a DC of 25 + the opponent’s career level. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 4, minimum 20 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If only one participant fails this check, his opponent wins the Conflict (i.e. the Predator convinces the Prey of his loyalty, or the Prey discovers the Predator’s duplicity); otherwise, the crisis is averted without tipping the scales in either direction and the Conflict continues as standard. Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 3 in his opponent’s favor as he blunders through the situation. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the infiltration ends.INFILTRATION*LOCKDOWNStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Search (Int)Requirements: Organization Goals Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –4You suspend all non-essential activities, trying to limit any infiltrator’s access.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Pause: The infiltration is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the infiltration is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.INFILTRATION*MANTRAPStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 7–9Skill Check Modifier: –6Suspicious of the Predator in particular, your security forces arrange a little ‘incident’…Advantages Crisis: The Predator makes an Impress (Cha) check and the Prey makes a Sense Motive (Wis) check, each with a DC of 25 + the opponent’s career level. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 4, minimum 20 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If only one participant fails this check, his opponent wins the Conflict; otherwise, the crisis is averted without tipping the scales in either direction and the Conflict continues as standard. Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 3 in his opponent’s favor as he blunders through the situation. Showdown: The Predator and 1 of the organization’s special NPCs become locked in combat. The GC determines the special NPC and combat’s location. If any minions are available, 1 squad accompanies the special NPC. This special NPC may only be the organization’s mastermind if the Predator has managed to get himself transferred to the organization’s HQ. The infiltration continues if the special NPC and all minions are captured or killed (though in this case, the Lead increases by 2); otherwise, the infiltration ends in the Prey’s favor, the Predator must escape, and the Prey gains a number of action dice equal to the current Lead that may only be spent to trigger a Surprise Chase, Surprise Combat, or Wanted event targeting the Predator.INFILTRATION*NEW PROCEDURESStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Organization Goals Rating 6+Skill Check Modifier: –8You alter the organization’s routine. Unless the Predator’s careful, he might be forced into a position for which he isn’t ready.Advantages New Approach: The Predator’s approach shifts from high profile to low profile, or vice-versa. Pause: The infiltration is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the infiltration is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.INFILTRATION*RESTRUCTURINGStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Organization Goals Rating 5+Skill Check Modifier: –6Suspicious of security leaks or simply on schedule, the organization reorganizes, possibly leaving the Predator back at Square One.Advantages Relocate: Suspicious that outsiders have compromised the organization, the Prey moves 1 of its Sites to a new location unknown to the Predator. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Prey moves 1 additional Site.INFILTRATION*RISING QUOTASStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Organization Goals Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –2You accelerate the organization’s activities, forcing your people to work harder just to stay where they are. This likely hurts the Predator’s cause, leaving him less and less time to further his infiltration.Advantages Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the infiltration ends.INFILTRATION*RUN OF THE HOUSEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Impress (Cha)Requirements: High profile approach, Goals Rating 3+Skill Check Modifier: –4You give any infiltrators a wide berth, hoping they’ll get cocky or make a mistake.Advantages Convert: The Prey begins or continues a seduction Conflict targeting the Predator. Each time this Advantage is chosen during the same infiltration, 1 seduction Conflict round is resolved. The seduction doesn’t progress in any other fashion. The Prey’s Impress (Cha) and other skill bonuses used in the seduction Conflict are equal to 2 x (the organization’s Image or Tools Rating, whichever is higher). Finally, if the Prey wins the seduction Conflict, the Predator joins its ranks as a loyal servant. Revelation: The Prey may deliberately reveal 1 of the following pieces of information to gain 1 bonus action die: his organization’s full history, one of his organization’s goals that his opponent does not know, one of his organization’s Ratings that his opponent does not know, the location and nature of 1 of his organization’s Sites that his opponent does not know, the Origin, Attribute scores, qualities, feats, and class abilities of 1 of the organization’s player or special characters of his choice, or the full stat block for 1 of the organization’s standard characters of his choice. If a player controls the Prey, the Game Control does not gain 1 action die as a result of this Advantage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner may reveal 1 additional piece of information to gain 1 additional bonus action die.INFILTRATION*SECURITY SWEEPStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 4–6Skill Check Modifier: –4Regular security sweeps are liable to catch the Predator by surprise, leading to a deadly confrontation.Advantages Showdown: The Predator and 1 of the organization’s special NPCs become locked in combat. The GC determines the special NPC and combat’s location based on the opposed check loser’s routine. If any minions are available to the organization, 1 squad accompanies the special NPC. This special NPC may only be the organization’s mastermind if the Predator has managed to get himself transferred to the organization’s HQ. The infiltration continues if the special NPC and all minions are captured or killed (though in this case, the Lead increases by 2); otherwise, the infiltration ends in the Prey’s favor, the Predator must escape, and the Prey gains a number of action dice equal to the current Lead that may only be spent to trigger a Surprise Chase, Surprise Combat, or Wanted event targeting the Predator.INFILTRATION*SHOW OF STRENGTHStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Bluff (Cha)Requirements: Lead 4–6Skill Check Modifier: –4You put on a show for the Predator, seeking to solidify your control over your people with the classics: Money, Ideology, Compromise, and Ego. As a byproduct, the Predator may become entranced as well.Advantages Convert: The Prey begins or continues a seduction Conflict targeting the Predator. Each time this Advantage is chosen during the same infiltration, 1 seduction Conflict round is resolved. The seduction doesn’t progress in any other fashion. The Prey’s Impress (Cha) and other skill bonuses used in the seduction Conflict are equal to 2 ¥ (the organization’s Image or Tools Rating, whichever is higher). Finally, if the Prey wins the seduction Conflict, the Predator joins its ranks as a loyal servant. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the infiltration ends.INFILTRATION*HEAD FAKEStrategy: GeneralConflict Round Duration: 30 minutes (if chosen by Predator)Skill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Will save bonus 6+Skill Check Modifier: –2You stage an elaborate mind game, hoping to trip your opponent up.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Slip: The opposed check winner gains 1 of the following benefits. • The winner extracts 1 clue or important secret from 1 opponent. • The winner presents one lie that is believed to be true as if he made a successful Bluff/Deception check with a penalty of up to –6. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the winner extracts 1 additional clue or secret, or increases the penalty limit of the lie by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.).INTERROGATION*MOMENT OF CRISISStrategy: GeneralConflict Round Duration: 5 minutes (if chosen by Predator)Skill: StandardRequirements: Lead 1–3Skill Check Modifier: –6You try to force an outcome with high-pressure tactics.Advantages Crisis: The process reaches a crucial impasse, with Predator and Prey locked in the ultimate test of wills. Each participant must make a Sense Motive (Wis) check (DC 25 + the opponent’s career level). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 4, minimum 20 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this check, he cracks under the pressure, ending the interrogation in his opponent’s favor; otherwise, the Conflict continues as standard (this is the case even if both participants crack, though such an outcome likely produces stranger and stranger results as the participants slowly become unhinged). Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in his opponent’s favor as his determination falters.INTERROGATION*WAITING GAMEStrategy: GeneralConflict Round Duration: 1 hour (if chosen by Predator)Skill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You settle in for a long, drawn out interview, hoping for outside forces to come into play.Advantages Pause: The interrogation is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the interrogation is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the interrogation ends.INTERROGATION*“WE’RE DONE HERE”Strategy: GeneralConflict Round Duration: 15 minutes (if chosen by Predator)Skill: StandardRequirements: Will save bonus 7+Skill Check Modifier: –12In a fit of pique, you take things over the line looking for an immediate conclusion.Advantages Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the interrogation ends. Victory: The interrogation ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.INTERROGATION*BAD COPStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 15 minutesSkill: StandardRequirements: Will save bonus 4+Skill Check Modifier: +0You play up your authority or potential for violence, seeking to unnerve and wear down the Prey.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the interrogation ends.INTERROGATION*GOADStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 1 hourSkill: Investigation (Wis)Requirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: –4You repeatedly come back to the same questions and carefully analyze each of the Prey’s responses, trying to ferret out logical inconsistencies.Advantages Slip: The opposed check winner gains 1 of the following benefits. • The winner extracts 1 clue or important secret from 1 opponent. • The winner presents one lie that is believed to be true as if he made a successful Bluff/Deception check with a penalty of up to –6. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the winner extracts 1 additional clue or secret, or increases the penalty limit of the lie by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.).INTERROGATION*GOOD COPStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 30 minutesSkill: Networking (Cha)Requirements: Will save bonus 5+Skill Check Modifier: –6You make a series of friendly gestures or overtures, trying to win the Prey over or undermine his determination.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Charm: The opposed check winner improves his opponent’s disposition toward him by 1 grade until the end of the current scene (maximum Friendly). Every 3 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opponent’s disposition toward the opposed check winner improves by 1 additional grade.INTERROGATION*WORSE COPStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 5 minutesSkill: StandardRequirements: Will save bonus 8+Skill Check Modifier: –8You go beyond simple intimidation, your demeanor menacing and frightful.Advantages Crisis: The process reaches a crucial impasse, with Predator and Prey locked in the ultimate test of wills. Each participant must make a Sense Motive (Wis) check (DC 25 + the opponent’s career level). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 4, minimum 20 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this check, he cracks under the pressure, ending the interrogation in his opponent’s favor; otherwise, the Conflict continues as standard (this is the case even if both participants crack, though such an outcome likely produces stranger and stranger results as the participants slowly become unhinged). Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in his opponent’s favor as his determination falters. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the interrogation ends.INTERROGATION*THE 5THStrategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: —Skill: StandardRequirements: Will save bonus 8+Skill Check Modifier: –8You put on a display of detached calm, countering the Predator’s questions with reasoned responses and legal loopholes.Advantages Crisis: The process reaches a crucial impasse, with Predator and Prey locked in the ultimate test of wills. Each participant must make a Sense Motive (Wis) check (DC 25 + the opponent’s career level). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 4, minimum 20 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this check, he cracks under the pressure, ending the interrogation in his opponent’s favor; otherwise, the Conflict continues as standard. Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in his opponent’s favor as his determination falters. Pause: The interrogation is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the interrogation is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to test one another), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.INTERROGATION*“I’M NO RAT”Strategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: —Skill: Networking (Wis)Requirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: –4You cling to your loyalties, drawing strength from the knowledge that any slip could endanger your friends and loved ones.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.INTERROGATION*“NOTHING TO SAY”Strategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: —Skill: StandardRequirements: Will save bonus 4+Skill Check Modifier: +0You clam up, hoping to resist all provocation.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the interrogation ends.INTERROGATION*STORY TIMEStrategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: —Skill: Bluff (Cha)Requirements: Will save bonus 5+Skill Check Modifier: –6You play upon the Predator’s intense focus, trying to ingratiate yourself and distract from the matter at hand.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Charm: The opposed check winner improves his opponent’s disposition toward him by 1 grade until the end of the current scene (maximum Friendly). Every 3 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opponent’s disposition toward the opposed check winner improves by 1 additional grade.INTERROGATION*OUT OF BOUNDSStrategy: GeneralSkill: Survival (Wis)Requirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You try to take the manhunt off the asphalt and into the underbrush (e.g. a major city park, a wild life preserve, a local forest, etc.).Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the manhunt ends.MANHUNT*SET UPStrategy: GeneralSkill: StandardRequirements: Lead 5–9Skill Check Modifier: –4You prepare for something completely different — and with luck entirely unexpected — during the following Conflict round.Advantages Twist: The opposed check winner may use any of the following skills when making the next opposed check during the same chase: Athletics (Str), Bureaucracy (Cha), Computers (Int), Drive (Dex), Networking (Cha), Search (Int), Sneak (Dex), or Streetwise (Wis). None of these checks possess tags.MANHUNT*“TAKE HIM!”Strategy: GeneralSkill: StandardRequirements: Master tracker class abilitySkill Check Modifier: +0You try to pin your opponent down, or slip out of his net.Advantages If a character possessing the master tracker class ability wins an opposed skill check using this Strategy, he may spend 1 use of the ability to choose any 1 Advantage, plus 1 additional Advantage per 4 by which he wins the check. He may not choose the Victory Advantage as part of this package.MANHUNT*ALL POINTS BULLETINStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –4Special: Choosing this Strategy increases the manhunt’s publicity by 1, whether the participant succeeds with the opposed check or not.Description: You put the word out, hoping to drive the Prey into the open.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Twist: The opposed check winner may use any of the following skills when making the next opposed check during the same chase: Athletics (Str), Bureaucracy (Cha), Computers (Int), Drive (Dex), Networking (Cha), Search (Int), Sneak (Dex), or Streetwise (Wis). None of these checks possess tags.MANHUNT*CHECKPOINTSStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 7+Skill Check Modifier: –6Special: Choosing this Strategy increases the manhunt’s publicity by 1, whether the participant succeeds with the opposed check or not.Description: You set up shop at major transit hubs and key routes in and out of the search area, hoping to catch the Prey right as he makes a move.Advantages Chase: A chase erupts between the Predator and Prey, each with a vehicle chosen by the GC based on their whereabouts and the situation at hand. The chase’s starting Lead is equal to the manhunt’s current Lead and the Predator gains 2 bonus action dice that may only be spent to boost skill checks made as part of the chase Conflict. If the Prey wins the chase, he escapes and wins the manhunt.MANHUNT*DESK JOCKEYStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Analysis (Int)Requirements: Lead 1–4Skill Check Modifier: –4You focus on the information in hand, trying to extract telling patterns from it.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Shred: The Power Rating of 1 of the Prey’s cover identities decreases by 1 (if the Predator possesses more than 1 cover identity, this affects the one with the lowest Power Rating). If this reduces the Power Rating to 0, the cover identity is blown. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the identity’s Power Rating is reduced by an additional 1 (if the most recently targeted identity’s Power Rating is reduced to 0, this affects the cover identity with the next lowest Power Rating).MANHUNT*DIAL IT BACKStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: –2You withdraw from the public eye temporarily, trying to cover your tracks and allowing things to cool off.Advantages Pause: The manhunt is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Further, the manhunt’s publicity decreases by 1. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the manhunt is paused for 1 additional round and its publicity decreases by an additional 1. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to fox and outfox one another and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress. Public Support: The manhunt’s publicity decreases by 2. Every 2 times this advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the manhunt’s publicity decreases by an additional 1.MANHUNT*“GOTCHA!”Strategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 6+Skill Check Modifier: –12You back a hunch and take a tremendous gamble, hoping to catch the Prey unawares.Advantages Profile: The Predator reconstructs or even predicts 1 opponent’s actions through psychological analysis. He begins or joins a scene featuring the chosen opponent at a location of the GC’s choice as a point shown on table 6.15: Profiling Delay. Unless the Lead is 1 or less (after all current modifiers are applied), the winner always arrives after the Prey leaves. If the chosen opponent possesses 1 or more cover identities, the Lead increases by 1 for this purpose. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, however, the Lead is decreased by 1 for this purpose. The actual Lead does not change as a result of these modifiers. Once the Predator arrives on scene, he may make an Investigation/ Canvass Area or Search/Perception check against the DC listed on Table 6.15. With success, he gains 1 clue or detail about the Prey. In addition to any other effects the Predator gains for possessing this information, he also benefits from a +2 bonus per clue/detail with all subsequent skill checks made as part of the same manhunt (including any made due to later profile Advantages). Victory: The interrogation ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.MANHUNT*INTENSE SCRUTINYStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Search (Int)Requirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0Special: Choosing this Strategy increases the manhunt’s publicity by 1, whether the participant succeeds with the opposed check or not.Description: You return to previous scenes where the Prey was spotted and subject every detail to intense scrutiny to glean new insight. This threatens any façade the Prey’s erected, but also calls unwanted attention to the search.Advantages Shred: The Power Rating of 1 of the Prey’s cover identities decreases by 1 (if the Predator possesses more than 1 cover identity, this affects the one with the lowest Power Rating). If this reduces the Power Rating to 0, the cover identity is blown. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the identity’s Power Rating is reduced by an additional 1 (if the most recently targeted identity’s Power Rating is reduced to 0, this affects the cover identity with the next lowest Power Rating). Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the manhunt ends.MANHUNT*LEGWORKStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +2Special: Choosing this Strategy increases the manhunt’s publicity by 1, whether the participant succeeds with the opposed check or not.Description: You or your proxies head out into the streets to follow up on leads and interview citizens.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.MANHUNT*MEDIA BLITZStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Impress (Cha)Requirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 6+Skill Check Modifier: –6Special: Choosing this Strategy increases the manhunt’s publicity by 1, whether the participant succeeds with the opposed check or not.Description: You appeal to the populace for support in finding the Prey. While intrusive, this tactic can pay off in a big way as the manhunt progresses.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Public Support: The manhunt’s publicity decreases by 2. Every 2 times this advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the manhunt’s publicity decreases by an additional 1.MANHUNT*MIND OF A KILLERStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Lead 1–5Skill Check Modifier: –4You immerse yourself in the Prey’s life and mindset, believing that if you understand him well enough, you’ll be able to predict his next move.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Profile: The Predator begins or joins a scene featuring the chosen opponent at a location of the GC’s choice as a point shown on table 6.15: Profiling Delay. Unless the Lead is 1 or less (after all current modifiers are applied), the winner always arrives after the Prey leaves. If the chosen opponent possesses 1 or more cover identities, the Lead increases by 1 for this purpose. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, however, the Lead is decreased by 1 for this purpose. The actual Lead does not change as a result of these modifiers. Once the Predator arrives on scene, he may make an Investigation/ Canvass Area or Search/Perception check against the DC listed on Table 6.15. With success, he gains 1 clue or detail about the Prey. In addition to any other effects the Predator gains for possessing this information, he also benefits from a +2 bonus per clue/detail with all subsequent skill checks made as part of the same manhunt (including any made due to later profile Advantages).MANHUNT*SURVEILLANCEStrategy: Predator onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 5+Skill Check Modifier: –4You use wire tapes and other surveillance gear to track the Prey electronically.Advantages Fade: The lowest cover identity Power Rating possessed by the opposed check winner increases by 1 (maximum 7). If the winner possesses no cover identities, he gains 1 cover identity with a Power Rating of 2. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the lowest cover identity Power Rating possessed by the opposed check winner increases by an additional 1. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.MANHUNT*THE USUAL SUSPECTSStrategy: Predator onlySkill: Intimidate (Str)Requirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 3+Skill Check Modifier: –2Special: Choosing this Strategy increases the manhunt’s publicity by 1, whether the participant succeeds with the opposed check or not.Description: You run down the “usual suspects,” interviewing and even squeezing them for information about the Prey.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Slip: The opposed check winner gains 1 of the following benefits. • The winner extracts 1 clue or important secret from 1 opponent. • The winner presents one lie that is believed to be true as if he made a successful Bluff/Deception check with a penalty of up to –6. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the winner extracts 1 additional clue or secret, or increases the penalty limit of the lie by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.).MANHUNT*ACT CASUALStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You develop a simple, inconspicuous routine to avoid notice.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.MANHUNT*DISGRACEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 5+Skill Check Modifier: –8Special: Choosing this Strategy increases the manhunt’s publicity by 1, whether the participant succeeds with the opposed check or not.Description: You set up an exhibition of the Predator’s “incompetence” and “abuse of authority.”Advantages Outcry: The manhunt’s publicity increases by 1. Every 2 times this advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same Challenge, the manhunt’s publicity increases by an additional 1. Shred: The Power Rating of 1 of the Prey’s cover identities decreases by 1 (if the Predator possesses more than 1 cover identity, this affects the one with the lowest Power Rating). If this reduces the Power Rating to 0, the cover identity is blown. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the identity’s Power Rating is reduced by an additional 1 (if the most recently targeted identity’s Power Rating is reduced to 0, this affects the cover identity with the next lowest Power Rating).MANHUNT*GO TO GROUNDStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: –2You stay out of sight, buying time for other activities.Advantages Pause: The manhunt is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Further, the manhunt’s publicity decreases by 1. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the manhunt is paused for 1 additional round and its publicity decreases by an additional 1. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to fox and outfox one another and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the manhunt ends.MANHUNT*INTERFERENCEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –4You feed the Predator a series of false leads and red herrings in order to bog down the hunt.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Slip: The opposed check winner gains 1 of the following benefits. • The winner extracts 1 clue or important secret from 1 opponent. • The winner presents one lie that is believed to be true as if he made a successful Bluff/Deception check with a penalty of up to –6. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the winner extracts 1 additional clue or secret, or increases the penalty limit of the lie by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.).MANHUNT*NEW FACE, NEW MANStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Falsify (Int)Requirements: Lead 6–9Skill Check Modifier: –6You develop a new cover identity to help screen your actions.Advantages Fade: The lowest cover identity Power Rating possessed by the opposed check winner increases by 1 (maximum 7). If the winner possesses no cover identities, he gains 1 cover identity with a Power Rating of 2. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the lowest cover identity Power Rating possessed by the opposed check winner increases by an additional 1. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.MANHUNT*NO WITNESSStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Intimidate (Str)Requirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 3+Skill Check Modifier: –2You backtrack, trying to silence any bystanders who might provide the Predator with clues about you.Advantages Confront: A combat erupts between the Predator and Prey, with both characters carrying only their personal gear and the Prey benefiting from a quick ambush. If either character defeats the other, he wins the manhunt. Slip: The opposed check winner gains 1 of the following benefits. • The winner extracts 1 clue or important secret from 1 opponent. • The winner presents one lie that is believed to be true as if he made a successful Bluff/Deception check with a penalty of up to –6. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the winner extracts 1 additional clue or secret, or increases the penalty limit of the lie by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.).MANHUNT*RANDOM ACTSStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Manipulate (Wis)Requirements: Lead 1–5Skill Check Modifier: –4Special: Choosing this Strategy decreases the manhunt’s publicity by 1, whether the participant succeeds with the opposed check or not.Description: You try to break up your routine, throwing off the Predator.Advantages Fake Out: The Prey plants a set of false clues about his motivations and methods. The next time the Predator gains a Profile Advantage, the Lead is considered 2 higher when calculating the profile’s effect. Choosing this Advantage multiple times does not further increase the Lead for this purpose; instead, every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same Conflict round, this modifier affects 1 additional Profile Advantage after the first. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the manhunt ends.MANHUNT*RUN FOR THE BORDERStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 6+Skill Check Modifier: –8You brazenly try to flee the search area, ending the manhunt with one wild dash for freedom!Advantages Chase: A chase erupts between the Predator and Prey, each with a vehicle chosen by the GC based on their whereabouts and the situation at hand. The chase’s starting Lead is equal to the manhunt’s current Lead and the Predator gains 2 bonus action dice that may only be spent to boost skill checks made as part of the chase Conflict. If the Prey wins the chase, he escapes and wins the manhunt.MANHUNT*SANITIZEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Search (Int)Requirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: –2You go back over your trail, trying to erase any signs of your passage.Advantages Fade: The lowest cover identity Power Rating possessed by the opposed check winner increases by 1 (maximum 7). If the winner possesses no cover identities, he gains 1 cover identity with a Power Rating of 2. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the lowest cover identity Power Rating possessed by the opposed check winner increases by an additional 1. Pause: The manhunt is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Further, the manhunt’s publicity decreases by 1. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the manhunt is paused for 1 additional round and its publicity decreases by an additional 1. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to fox and outfox one another and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.MANHUNT*TAKE IT PUBLICStrategy: Prey onlySkill: Impress (Cha)Requirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 7+Skill Check Modifier: –8You plead your case to the public, looking to garner sympathy.Advantages Outcry: The manhunt’s publicity increases by 1. Every 2 times this advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same Challenge, the manhunt’s publicity increases by an additional 1. Twist: The opposed check winner may use any of the following skills when making the next opposed check during the same chase: Athletics (Str), Bureaucracy (Cha), Computers (Int), Drive (Dex), Networking (Cha), Search (Int), Sneak (Dex), or Streetwise (Wis). None of these checks possess tags.MANHUNT*WITHOUT A TRACEStrategy: Prey onlySkill: StandardRequirements: Spending Cash or Tools Rating 7+Skill Check Modifier: –12You concoct a bold and possibly complex plan to vanish entirely.Advantages Pause: The manhunt is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Further, the manhunt’s publicity decreases by 1. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the manhunt is paused for 1 additional round and its publicity decreases by an additional 1. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to fox and outfox one another and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress. Victory: The interrogation ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.MANHUNT*“CALL ME”Strategy: General Conflict Round Duration: 1 dayRequirements: NoneSkill Check Modifier: +0You try to keep the upper hand — by keeping the object of your desire at arm’s length.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Pause: The seduction is “put on hold.” The Lead remains the same and no steps are resolved during the following Conflict round. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the seduction is paused for 1 additional round. The action continues during this time (i.e. the participants continue to court one another and take other actions during Step 4 of each Conflict round), but no one — including the opposed check winner — makes any progress.SEDUCTION*LOVE IS BLINDStrategy: GeneralConflict Round Duration: 1 hourRequirements: Lead 4–6Skill Check Modifier: –4You bring new strengths to the table… or the bed.Advantages Twist: The opposed check winner may use any of the following skills when making the next opposed check during the same chase: Bluff (Cha), Cultures (Int), Drive (Dex), Manipulate (Cha), Networking (Cha), Profession (Cha), or Resolve (Wis). None of these checks possess tags.SEDUCTION*SHOW OF GOOD FAITHStrategy: GeneralConflict Round Duration: 10 minutesRequirements: Lead 3–5Skill Check Modifier: –6Special: If this Strategy is successful, the time required to complete the favor is added to the Conflict round’s duration.Description: You demand a demonstration of the target’s commitment.Advantages Favor: The opposed check winner may require the loser to perform 1 action for him as if he made a successful Influence/ Persuasion check with a penalty of up to –6. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the penalty limit of this requested action increases by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.). If the opposed check winner demands this action, the Lead is adjusted by 1 in his opponent’s favor. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.SEDUCTION*COMPROMISING POSITIONStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 1 dayRequirements: Spending Cash 5+ or Image Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: –6You advance on the target with thinly veiled threats of embarrassment or loss.Advantages Crisis: The Conflict reaches a crucial impasse, with both parties’ unshielded feelings on the table. Each participant must make a Cultures (Cha) check (DC 25 + the opponent’s career level). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 4, minimum 20 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this check, he makes a gross faux pas, ending the seduction in his opponent’s favor; otherwise, the Conflict continues as standard (this is the case even if both participants slip, though such an outcome likely produces stranger and stranger results as the participants learn uncomfortable things about each other). Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in his opponent’s favor as he blunders through the situation. Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the seduction ends.SEDUCTION*EXTRA INCENTIVEStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 10 minutesRequirements: Spending Cash 4+ or Image Rating 6+Skill Check Modifier: +0You sweeten your offering with acts of kindness and other displays designed to win the target over.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.SEDUCTION*HARD SELLStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 1 minuteRequirements: Lead 1–4Skill Check Modifier: –4Special: If this Strategy is successful, the time required to complete the favor is added to the Conflict round’s duration.Description: In a romantic panic or as a calculated ploy, you make a bold play for the Prey’s heart.Advantages Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the seduction ends. Favor: The opposed check winner may require the loser to perform 1 action for him as if he made a successful Influence/ Persuasion check with a penalty of up to –6. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the penalty limit of this requested action increases by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.). If the opposed check winner demands this action, the Lead is adjusted by 1 in his opponent’s favor.SEDUCTION*SEAL THE DEALStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 1 hourRequirements: Spending Cash 7+ or Image Rating 6+Skill Check Modifier: –12You make a final play for the Prey’s affections.Advantages Victory: The interrogation ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.SEDUCTION*“WE HAD SOME GOOD TIMES”Strategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 4 hoursRequirements: Lead 6–9Skill Check Modifier: –8Special: If this Strategy is successful, the time required to complete the favor is added to the Conflict round’s duration.Description: Satisfied with your influence over the Prey, you try to break off the relationship without losing any emotional ground.Advantages Favor: The opposed check winner may require the loser to perform 1 action for him as if he made a successful Influence/Persuasion check with a penalty of up to –6. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the penalty limit of this requested action increases by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.). If the opposed check winner demands this action, the Lead is adjusted by 1 in his opponent’s favor. Halt: The seduction ends and neither the Predator nor the Prey wins the Conflict. Both parties retain their current dispositions toward one another.SEDUCTION*WINE AND DINEStrategy: Predator onlyConflict Round Duration: 2 hoursRequirements: Spending Cash 4+ or Image Rating 3+Skill Check Modifier: –6You pour on the charm, secretly manipulating the Prey’s emotions.Advantages Charm: The Prey’s disposition toward the Predator improves by 1 grade until the end of the current mission (maximum Supportive). Every 3 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Prey’s disposition improves by 1 additional grade. Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.SEDUCTION*“I JUST CAN’T”Strategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: StandardRequirements: Lifestyle 7+ or History Rating 6+Skill Check Modifier: –12You dig in, resisting the Predator’s intentions at all cost.Advantages Victory: The interrogation ends in the opposed check winner’s favor.SEDUCTION*IN TOO DEEPStrategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: StandardRequirements: Lead 1–3Skill Check Modifier: –8As your bond with the Predator grows stronger, a way to turn the tables comes to light. Perhaps you don’t need to be the only emotional victim in this power play…Advantages Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the seduction ends. Swap: The Predator becomes the Prey, or vice versa, and the Lead is increased by 1.SEDUCTION*“IT’S NOT RIGHT”Strategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: StandardRequirements: Lifestyle 4+ or History Rating 3+Skill Check Modifier: –6Your moral objections to the Predator’s actions lead to arguments and hurt feelings.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Disappoint: The Prey’s disposition toward the Predator worsens by 1 grade until the end of the current mission (minimum Hostile). Every 3 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Prey’s disposition worsens by 1 additional grade.SEDUCTION*“IT’S NOT YOU, IT’S ME”Strategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: StandardRequirements: Lifestyle 4+ or History Rating 5+Skill Check Modifier: –6Special: If this Strategy is successful, the time required to complete the favor is added to the Conflict round’s duration.Description: The Predator finds himself dragged into your complicated life, and doing things for love he never thought he’d consider.Advantages Crisis: The Conflict reaches a crucial impasse, with both parties’ unshielded feelings on the table. Each participant must make a Cultures (Cha) check (DC 25 + the opponent’s career level). Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the opposed check winner’s Crisis DC decreases by 4, minimum 20 (his opponent’s Crisis DC remains unchanged). If either participant fails this check, he makes a gross faux pas, ending the seduction in his opponent’s favor; otherwise, the Conflict continues as standard. Each participant may skip this skill check, but the Lead shifts by 2 in his opponent’s favor as he blunders through the situation. Favor: The opposed check winner may require the loser to perform 1 action for him as if he made a successful Influence/Persuasion check with a penalty of up to –6. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the penalty limit of this requested action increases by 2. If the opposed check winner demands this action, the Lead is adjusted by 1 in his opponent’s favor.SEDUCTION*“PEOPLE WILL TALK”Strategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: StandardRequirements: Lifestyle 6+ or History Rating 4+Skill Check Modifier: +0Special: If this Strategy is successful, the time required to complete the favor is added to the Conflict round’s duration.Description: Concerned about appearances, you try to back out of the affair.Advantages Lead: The Lead is adjusted by 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor. Every 2 times this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the Lead is adjusted by an additional 1 in the opposed check winner’s favor.SEDUCTION*“TELL ME MORE”Strategy: Prey onlyConflict Round Duration: StandardRequirements: Lead 6–9Skill Check Modifier: –4Special: If this Strategy is successful, the time required to complete the favor is added to the Conflict round’s duration.Description: You act interested, testing the Predator’s intentions.Advantages Stress: Each participant except the opposed check winner suffers 1d4 stress damage. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, this damage increases by +1d4. No character may recover from this damage until the seduction ends. Favor: The opposed check winner may require the loser to perform 1 action for him as if he made a successful Influence/ Persuasion check with a penalty of up to –6. Each time this Advantage is chosen beyond the first during the same round, the penalty limit of this requested action increases by 2 (i.e. to –8 if the Advantage is chosen twice, –10 if it’s chosen three times, etc.). If the opposed check winner demands this action, the Lead is adjusted by 1 in his opponent’s favor.SEDUCTION*